The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.
Test
Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.
The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.
A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.
Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more
The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.
The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.
A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.
Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.
The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.
The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.
Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.
The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).
In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.
Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.
A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.
The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.
The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.
Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.
A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""
70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.
There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.
In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.
According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.
Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.
A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.
Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.
Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.
The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.
Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body
Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.
The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.
Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.
A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.
A female cat is called a queen or a molly.
The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.
There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.
A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.
The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.
Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.
Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.
Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.
A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.
Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.
The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.
Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.
The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).
The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).
A female cat is called a queen or a molly.
Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.
Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!
A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).
Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.
A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.
Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.
Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"
A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.
Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.
Most cats adore sardines.
Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.
Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.
While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.
The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.
A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. 
A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.
A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.
There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.
In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.
Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.
Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.
A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.
A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.
In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.
A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.
The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.
The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.
In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.
Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.
Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.
In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.
A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.
The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.
A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.
A cat cannot see directly under its nose.
The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.
The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.
The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”
